
1.Factory Pattern

Q.What is Factory Pattern?
ANS : A creation design pattern used to create the different object based on requirement

Q.What problem does it solve?
ANS : helps to create the object in centralize place without making the core code cluttered

Q.How is implemented?
ANS : Create the factory class with method which return the object checking the conditions

Q.Real example?
ANS : we can have a class of Vehicle which will return the different vehicle object like
      bike car bus 

2.Abstract Factory

Q.What is Abstract Factory Pattern?
ANS : provides an interface for creating families of related object without specifying their concrete class

Q.What problem it solve?
ANS: When we need to create multiple related objects, 
    Abstract Factory separates their creation into different factories and ensures that related objects are created together.

Q.How is implemented?
ANS : Create the abstract factory interface containing the different methods
      deriving the single Factory interface

Q.Real example?
ANS: We can have different product families based on vehicle brands, where BMWFactory
     creates BMW-related vehicles and KTMFactory creates KTM-related vehicles.

3.Singletone Pattern

Q.What is it?
ANS: creational design pattern allows to keep and access the single instance of class
     throughout the system

Q.what problem it solves?
ANS: ensuring only one instance of class exist when having multiple
      instance would be unnecessary or undesirable, while providing 
      common instance point to it 

Q.How to implemented?
ANS: create the the class which has static instance and methods. 
     everytime getInstance method called check if instance is already
     availble then create return accordingly

Q.Real example
ANS: we can have single db connection for a system or logger

4.Builder Patterns

Q. what is it?
ANS : pattern that allows to build objects with complex and lots of optional
      fields

Q. what problem does it solve?
ANS : its tidious and repetive to call the constructor with lots of optional
      fields

Q. example?
ANS : StringBuilder and HttpRequest 