1. Strategy Pattern

q.what is it?
ans : allows us to switch the alorithm at runtime. there can be multiple way
      to do same task. we execute the selected method in runtime

q.what problem does it solves?
ans : hardcoding the logic in client code make it cluttered and violates SRP.

q.how it works?
ans : create the different Strategy class implementing the Strategy interface
      and assign them to ref of interface

q.real example
ans : payment processors , navigation




2.Observer Pattern

q.what is it?
ans: allows the object (subject) to notify other object whenever the certain
     event occurs

q.what problem it solves?
ans: it avoids the tightly coupling the object generating an event that need to 
     react with it

q.how to implement?
ans: create the subject that maintains the list of observer. provides methods
     to add remove the observer and calls their notification method

q.real world example?
ans: Game development,Youtube,Stock market


3.Command Pattern

q.what is it?
ans : allows to treat the request as a object keeps code losely coupled

q.what problem it solves?
ans : it decouples the object that requests an operation from object
      that performs operation. also allows to request logged,undone,queue
      or execute later

q.how to implement?
ans : create a Command interface with execute() method. create concrete
      class for the different actions. each Command maintains a reference
      to receiver that performs the actual operation. invoker receives and 
      executes Command

q.real world example?
ans : Game development, Remote procedure call in IOT

4.Template Pattern

q.what is it?
ans : allows to define the blueprint of algorithm in parent class and 
      override the specific steps in child class      

q.what problem does it solve?
ans : avoids duplication of code if multiple class and following 
      same sequence of steps to perform a task. but there can be differences in 
      implementation of some steps.

q.how it works?
ans : create an abstract class that defines the template method 
      which contains the skeleton of algorithm.

q.real world example?
ans : Game development , Algorithm implementations

5.State Pattern

q.what is it?
ans : objects can alter there behavior based on current state,state
      patterns helps to keep implementation modular and scalable.
      encapsulates state specific behavior into separate class

q.what problem does it solve?
ans : implementing the behavior of object in main class which may
      change based on state makes code clutter. keeps if else block
      in main class to check the state

q.how to implement?
ans : create the class for each state which is defines the behavior,
      also there is nextState in state class which will directly assign
      the next stateClass instance to the context.
      (nextState() isn't a mandatory part of the State Pattern.)

q.real world example?
ans : Programming card games like UNO,Rummy etc